# HeatMapMaker
A simple Python3-based GUI Application to plot data from plain-text CSV files into heatmaps with adjustable configurations.

HeatMapMaker was written to fill the need for good-looking representation of summarized data. In my group, this was done either via Excel (which looks just horrible when it comes to scientific graphs) or with cryptic modules giving little costumization power. HeatMapMaker was written to quickly plot heatmaps for lab members less experienced in writing software.

## Modules required
HeatMapMaker's main function calls ``seaborn``'s ``heatmap()`` function. Naturally, this requires the basic ``matplotlib`` module.  Aside, HeatMapMaker parses data as a ``pandas`` ``DataFrame``. The GUI is built using the standard library module ``tkinter``. 

## Input 
As input, use plain text CSV files. The cell seperator used is adjustable, so any plain text table format can be used. Per default, HeatMapMaker uses the semicolon (';') as cell seperator as this is the standard seperator for CSV files generated by the German version of Excel. (And since it is a German software, is parses both German and international notations of the decimal point). 
The files are expected to have explanatory headers for each column and row aside the actual numerical data.* The general format of an input file looks like this:

*optional or empty cell* | Col Header 1 | Col Header 2 | ...
-------------------------|--------------|--------------|----
**Row Header 1** | Data Val 1 | Data Val 2 | ...
**Row Header 2** | Data Val 3 | Data Val 4 | ...
**Row Header 3** | Data Val 5 | Data Val 6 | ...
**...** | ... | ... | ...

Have a look at ``example_csv.csv`` in the ``example_plots`` directory for a practical example. 
Note that while technically there is no limit to the size of the plot, plot beauty may suffer with too large input tables.

\* _(If you have a look at the code-base, you will notice that the class used to parse the CSV file can actually deal with other formats. View this as a mental "to-do" list by the author. ;-) )_

## Adjusting Plot Configuration
There is a set of pre-defined color schemes availables that can be adjusted using the drop-down menus in the main window. 

Directly below you can chose to plot the numerical values inside the cells or show only the color as well as to coerce the cells into squares. If you do not enforce squaring of the cells, the standard ``seaborn`` layout designer will create elongated rectangular cells. Again, see the ``example_plot`` directory for examples of colors and squared vs. non-squared plots. 

In entry fields you can insert an optional title for the heatmap plot as well as the seperator used in the input CSV file. As mentioned above, the standard seperator is the semicolon due to the German main target audience. 

In the ``Settings`` dropdown menu you can adjust the upper and lower boundaries of the heatmap coloring. Fill these according to your data. In the ``Settings`` you can also adjust the DPI of the saved file. 
